+++
title = "Private Walter Howard ROGERS was born on February 2, 1918, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and from an early age, he displayed qualities of ambition, determination, and a keen sense of responsibility. Raised in a family that included his father, James Arthur, mother, Eva, his sister, Margaret Jane, and half-brothers William George and Thomas Arthur, Walter was the third child. His family was close-knit, and he often spoke of his “ideal home,” a nurturing environment that instilled values of commitment and hard work. These early lessons shaped him into a well-rounded individual with a love for his family, sports, and active community engagement."
+++


After completing Grade XI at a Manitoba technical high school, Walter worked in various jobs, gaining skills that would define his early career. For a year, he handled bookkeeping at Allan Killam McKay, followed by a sales position at Weaver Brush Company. Walter’s career took a significant step forward when he joined the drafting room at Manitoba Telephone Company, where he worked for four years. He later assisted development engineers on airport projects, a role that involved public speaking and project organization—activities in which Walter thrived, displaying his natural leadership and communication abilities.

Walter’s life took a joyous turn when he married Doris Mary, and the couple welcomed a son, Brian Howard. His family meant everything to him, and he often shared that he was “happily married,” finding great joy in his roles as husband and father. He built his life around community involvement, serving as president of the St. Luke’s Young Men’s Club for five years, playing defense on his hockey team, and participating in sports like baseball, tennis, and soccer. His woodworking hobby reflected his appreciation for hands-on work, and his love for animals, particularly horses, was a testament to his gentle nature. Known for his well-mannered demeanor and genuine warmth, Walter was as comfortable attending dances and movies with friends as he was gardening or reading current magazines and newspapers.

His commitment to service became clear in August 1940, when he joined the 12th Field Company, Royal Canadian Engineers (Reserve), where he quickly rose to the rank of Acting Corporal. Three years later, on August 25, 1943, Walter enlisted in the regular Canadian Army, driven by a sense of duty and patriotism. Recognized for his excellent attitude, leadership qualities, and organizational skills, he was recommended for the infantry. His commanding officers saw in him a young man with “high Army ability,” remarking on his potential for promotion and his reliable nature. Walter’s preference was to serve with the Winnipeg Rifles, though he ultimately joined the Perth Regiment within the Royal Canadian Infantry Corps.

Walter’s military journey took him through Canada, the United Kingdom, and finally to the frontlines in Italy. From April 1944, he served with dedication in the Italian Campaign, a grueling battle that demanded strength, perseverance, and courage. His superiors continued to praise him for his strong work ethic and his adaptability under challenging conditions, believing him to be an excellent candidate for advancement.

On December 20, 1944, at the age of 26, Private Walter Howard Rogers was killed in action along via Chiara at Villa Prati, Bagnacavallo. 
His final resting place is in Villanova War Cemetery, Italy, in Plot IV, Row A, Grave 9, where his sacrifice is honored among the many who gave their lives in service. Walter’s life was one marked by commitment to family, community, and country. Remembered as a kind, ambitious, and capable young man, he embodied the qualities of a true leader. His legacy lives on through the memories of those who knew him and in the hearts of the family he left behind.
