+++
title = "Lance Corporal George William STEPHENS (Service No. W66349)"
+++


Born on September 23, 1909, in Belfast, Northern Ireland, George William Stephens was a spirited and determined individual who would ultimately sacrifice his life in service during the Second World War. At 5 feet 5 inches tall and 147 pounds, with light brown hair, blue eyes, and a medium complexion, George was known for his confident and sincere demeanor. Raised in a large family, he was the fourth of six children of George William Stephens Sr., a government employee who passed away in 1933, and Emma Rebecca Stephens. His siblings included three brothers, John Albert, Hugh Sidney, and Herbert Andrew, and two sisters, Laura Isabel and another sister who was married. Despite being single, George supported his mother, Emma, who lived with him in Burnaby, British Columbia, and was partly dependent on him.
George pursued his education through one year of high school before starting his career. He ran a small grocery and confectionery shop known as the Midway Store in Burnaby. This role as a storekeeper built a foundation of responsibility and resilience, yet George sought a greater purpose. He had also served previously in the 2nd Battalion, Westminster Regiment, a part of the Reserve Army, where he gained early military experience.
On August 21, 1942, at the age of 32, George enlisted in the Canadian Active Service Force in Vancouver, British Columbia. Recognizing his drive and capability, he was allocated to the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps (RCAMC), with the opportunity to serve overseas. His strong personality, confidence, and natural leadership potential led him to believe he’d have better chances with the RCAMC than a motorized unit. By April 14, 1944, he had transferred to the Canadian Infantry Corps (CIC) and was formally assigned to the Irish Regiment of Canada in Italy on April 17, 1944. George was promoted to Lance Corporal shortly thereafter on June 10, 1944.
In addition to his commitment to his family and community, George was an active individual, enjoying activities such as soccer, softball, volleyball, and physical education. He was also involved in Boy Scout activities and was fond of reading and attending movies.
George’s service took him from Canada to the United Kingdom and then to Italy in October 1943, where he served until his final days. On December 22, 1944, during a mission near the Senio River, George was accompanying a fighting patrol on a difficult advance toward a reverse dyke of the river. In the course of this action, they encountered strong enemy resistance, and George was tragically killed in the ensuing firefight.
Lance Corporal George William Stephens was laid to rest in the Villanova Canadian War Cemetery in Italy, Plot III, Row A, Grave 1. His sacrifice, courage, and dedication remain a powerful legacy, honoring both his family and the nation he served with pride.
